README.md, before:

<!--
  ~ Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  ~ or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  ~ distributed with this work for additional information
  ~ regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  ~ to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  ~ "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  ~ with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  ~
  ~   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  ~
  ~ Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  ~ software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  ~ "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  ~ KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  ~ specific language governing permissions and limitations
  ~ under the License.
-->

![Iceberg](https://iceberg.apache.org/assets/images/Iceberg-logo.svg)

[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20Slack-brightgreen.svg)](https://apache-iceberg.slack.com/)
[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/apache/iceberg-cpp)

# Apache Iceberg™ C++

C++ implementation of [Apache Iceberg™](https://iceberg.apache.org/).

## Requirements

- CMake 3.25 or higher
- C++23 compliant compiler

## Customizing Dependency URLs

If you experience network issues when downloading dependencies, you can customize the download URLs using environment variables.

The following environment variables can be set to customize dependency URLs:

- `ICEBERG_ARROW_URL`: Apache Arrow tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_AVRO_URL`: Apache Avro tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_AVRO_GIT_URL`: Apache Avro git repository URL
- `ICEBERG_NANOARROW_URL`: Nanoarrow tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_CROARING_URL`: CRoaring tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_NLOHMANN_JSON_URL`: nlohmann-json tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_CPR_URL`: cpr tarball URL

Example usage:

```bash
export ICEBERG_ARROW_URL="https://your-mirror.com/apache-arrow-22.0.0.tar.gz"
cmake -S . -B build
```

## Build

### Build, Run Test and Install Core Libraries

```bash
cd iceberg-cpp
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install -DICEBERG_BUILD_STATIC=ON -DICEBERG_BUILD_SHARED=ON
cmake --build build
ctest --test-dir build --output-on-failure
cmake --install build
```

### Build and Install Iceberg Bundle Library

#### Vendored Apache Arrow (default)

```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install -DICEBERG_BUILD_BUNDLE=ON
cmake --build build
ctest --test-dir build --output-on-failure
cmake --install build
```

#### Provided Apache Arrow

```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/path/to/arrow -DICEBERG_BUILD_BUNDLE=ON
cmake --build build
ctest --test-dir build --output-on-failure
cmake --install build
```

### Build Examples

After installing the core libraries, you can build the examples:

```bash
cd iceberg-cpp/example
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/path/to/install
cmake --build build
```

If you are using provided Apache Arrow, you need to include `/path/to/arrow` in `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` as below.

```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="/path/to/install;/path/to/arrow"
```

## Contribute

Apache Iceberg is an active open-source project, governed under the Apache Software Foundation (ASF). Iceberg-cpp is open to people who want to contribute to it. Here are some ways to get involved:

- Submit [Issues](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-cpp/issues/new) for bug report or feature requests.
- Discuss at [dev mailing list](mailto:dev@iceberg.apache.org) ([subscribe](<mailto:dev-subscribe@iceberg.apache.org?subject=(send%20this%20email%20to%20subscribe)>) / [unsubscribe](<mailto:dev-unsubscribe@iceberg.apache.org?subject=(send%20this%20email%20to%20unsubscribe)>) / [archives](https://lists.apache.org/list.html?dev@iceberg.apache.org))
- Talk to the community directly at [Slack #cpp channel](https://join.slack.com/t/apache-iceberg/shared_invite/zt-1zbov3k6e-KtJfoaxp97YfX6dPz1Bk7A).

The Apache Iceberg community is built on the principles described in the [Apache Way](https://www.apache.org/theapacheway/index.html) and all who engage with the community are expected to be respectful, open, come with the best interests of the community in mind, and abide by the Apache Foundation [Code of Conduct](https://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html).

### Linting

Install the python package `pre-commit` and run once `pre-commit install`.

```
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```

This will setup a git pre-commit-hook that is executed on each commit and will report the linting problems. To run all hooks on all files use `pre-commit run -a`.

### Dev Containers

We provide Dev Container configuration file templates.

To use a Dev Container as your development environment, follow the steps below, then select `Dev Containers: Reopen in Container` from VS Code's Command Palette.

```
cd .devcontainer
cp Dockerfile.template Dockerfile
cp devcontainer.json.template devcontainer.json
```

If you make improvements that could benefit all developers, please update the template files and submit a pull request.

## License

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Commit message:

doc: add AI-assisted contributions guidelines (#568)

README.md, after:

<!--
  ~ Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  ~ or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  ~ distributed with this work for additional information
  ~ regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  ~ to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  ~ "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  ~ with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
  ~
  ~   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  ~
  ~ Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  ~ software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  ~ "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  ~ KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  ~ specific language governing permissions and limitations
  ~ under the License.
-->

![Iceberg](https://iceberg.apache.org/assets/images/Iceberg-logo.svg)

[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20Slack-brightgreen.svg)](https://apache-iceberg.slack.com/)
[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/apache/iceberg-cpp)

# Apache Iceberg™ C++

C++ implementation of [Apache Iceberg™](https://iceberg.apache.org/).

## Requirements

- CMake 3.25 or higher
- C++23 compliant compiler (GCC 14+, Clang 16+, MSVC 2022+)

## Customizing Dependency URLs

If you experience network issues when downloading dependencies, you can customize the download URLs using environment variables.

The following environment variables can be set to customize dependency URLs:

- `ICEBERG_ARROW_URL`: Apache Arrow tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_AVRO_URL`: Apache Avro tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_AVRO_GIT_URL`: Apache Avro git repository URL
- `ICEBERG_NANOARROW_URL`: Nanoarrow tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_CROARING_URL`: CRoaring tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_NLOHMANN_JSON_URL`: nlohmann-json tarball URL
- `ICEBERG_CPR_URL`: cpr tarball URL

Example usage:

```bash
export ICEBERG_ARROW_URL="https://your-mirror.com/apache-arrow-22.0.0.tar.gz"
cmake -S . -B build
```

## Build

### Build, Run Test and Install Core Libraries

```bash
cd iceberg-cpp
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install -DICEBERG_BUILD_STATIC=ON -DICEBERG_BUILD_SHARED=ON
cmake --build build
ctest --test-dir build --output-on-failure
cmake --install build
```

### Build and Install Iceberg Bundle Library

#### Vendored Apache Arrow (default)

```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install -DICEBERG_BUILD_BUNDLE=ON
cmake --build build
ctest --test-dir build --output-on-failure
cmake --install build
```

#### Provided Apache Arrow

```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/path/to/arrow -DICEBERG_BUILD_BUNDLE=ON
cmake --build build
ctest --test-dir build --output-on-failure
cmake --install build
```

### Build Examples

After installing the core libraries, you can build the examples:

```bash
cd iceberg-cpp/example
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/path/to/install
cmake --build build
```

If you are using provided Apache Arrow, you need to include `/path/to/arrow` in `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` as below.

```bash
cmake -S . -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="/path/to/install;/path/to/arrow"
```

## Contribute

Apache Iceberg is an active open-source project, governed under the Apache Software Foundation (ASF). Iceberg-cpp is open to people who want to contribute to it. Here are some ways to get involved:

- Submit [Issues](https://github.com/apache/iceberg-cpp/issues/new) for bug report or feature requests.
- Discuss at [dev mailing list](mailto:dev@iceberg.apache.org) ([subscribe](<mailto:dev-subscribe@iceberg.apache.org?subject=(send%20this%20email%20to%20subscribe)>) / [unsubscribe](<mailto:dev-unsubscribe@iceberg.apache.org?subject=(send%20this%20email%20to%20unsubscribe)>) / [archives](https://lists.apache.org/list.html?dev@iceberg.apache.org))
- Talk to the community directly at [Slack #cpp channel](https://join.slack.com/t/apache-iceberg/shared_invite/zt-1zbov3k6e-KtJfoaxp97YfX6dPz1Bk7A).

The Apache Iceberg community is built on the principles described in the [Apache Way](https://www.apache.org/theapacheway/index.html) and all who engage with the community are expected to be respectful, open, come with the best interests of the community in mind, and abide by the Apache Foundation [Code of Conduct](https://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html).

In addition, contributors using AI-assisted tools must follow the documented guidelines for AI-assisted contributions available on the Iceberg website: [https://iceberg.apache.org/contribute/#guidelines-for-ai-assisted-contributions](https://iceberg.apache.org/contribute/#guidelines-for-ai-assisted-contributions).

### Linting

Install the python package `pre-commit` and run once `pre-commit install`.

```
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```

This will setup a git pre-commit-hook that is executed on each commit and will report the linting problems. To run all hooks on all files use `pre-commit run -a`.

### Dev Containers

We provide Dev Container configuration file templates.

To use a Dev Container as your development environment, follow the steps below, then select `Dev Containers: Reopen in Container` from VS Code's Command Palette.

```
cd .devcontainer
cp Dockerfile.template Dockerfile
cp devcontainer.json.template devcontainer.json
```

If you make improvements that could benefit all developers, please update the template files and submit a pull request.

## License

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
